Added article for v9 to v10 upgrade on Cloud (#4082)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Umbraco-Cloud/Upgrades/Migrating-from-9-to-10/index.md

---
versionFrom: 9.0.0
---

# Upgrading an Umbraco 9 Cloud project to Umbraco 10

This article will provide steps on how to upgrade an Umbraco 9 Cloud project to Umbraco 10.

The upgrade path between Umbraco 9 and Umbraco 10 can be done directly by updating your project using NuGet. You will need to ensure the packages you are using are available in Umbraco 10.

## Prerequisites

* An Umbraco 9 Cloud project running **the latest version of Umbraco 9** with **at least 2 environments**.

* A backup of your Umbraco 9 project database.

:::note
We strongly recommend having at least 2 environments on your project. If something fails during the upgrade, the Development environment can be removed and added again to start over with the upgrade process.
:::

> ## Step 1: Content Migration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Clone down your environment
```

> * Create a backup of the database from your project, see the [Database backups](https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/umbraco-cloud/Databases/Backups/) article or clone down the project and take a backup of the local Database (Ensure to restore the content from your cloud environment).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Create a backup of the database from your project, see the [Database backups](https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/umbraco-cloud/Databases/Backups/) article or clone down the project and take a backup of the local Database (Make sure to restore the content from your cloud environment).
```
```suggestion
* Create a backup of the database from your project, see the [Database backups](https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/umbraco-cloud/Databases/Backups/) article or clone down the project and take a backup of the local Database (Ensure to restore the content from your cloud environment).
```

> * Create a backup of the database from your project, see the [Database backups](https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/umbraco-cloud/Databases/Backups/) article or clone down the project and take a backup of the local Database (Ensure to restore the content from your cloud environment).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Create a backup of the database from your project, see the [Database backups](https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/umbraco-cloud/Databases/Backups/) article or clone down the project and take a backup of the local Database (Make sure to restore the content from your cloud environment).
```
```suggestion
* Create a backup of the database from your project, see the [Database backups](https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/umbraco-cloud/Databases/Backups/) article or clone down the project and take a backup of the local Database (Ensure to restore the content from your cloud environment).
```

> * Create a backup of the database from your project, see the [Database backups](https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/umbraco-cloud/Databases/Backups/) article or clone down the project and take a backup of the local Database (Make sure to restore the content from your cloud environment).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a backup of the database
  * Directly from your environment. See the [Database backups](https://our.umbraco.com/documentation/umbraco-cloud/Databases/Backups/) article 
  * Or clone down and restore the project, and take a backup of the local Database.
```

> * On the Cloud portal, go to the project that you wish to upgrade and navigate to **Settings** -> **Advanced**. Scroll down to **Runtime Settings** section and **Enable .NET 6 for your Umbraco 9 install** for each environment of your cloud project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Go to the project in the Cloud portal.
* Navigate to **Settings** -> **Advanced**
* Scroll down to the **Runtime Settings** section.
* **Enable .NET 6 for your Umbraco 9 install** for each environment of your Cloud project.
```

    ![Runtime Settings](images/Runtime-Settings.png)

> * Clone down the **Development** environment from the Umbraco Cloud project, build and run the project locally and make sure to log in to the backoffice.

Reviewer: Should there also be a step for restoring content? I guess you would wanna test the upgrade against that, right?

```suggestion
* Clone down the **Development** environment from the Umbraco Cloud project.
* Build and run the project locally.
* Make sure to log in to the backoffice.
* Restore content from your Cloud enviroment.
```

## Step 2: Upgrade the project locally using Visual Studio

* Open your project in Visual Studio.

> * Right-click your project solution in the **Solution Explorer** and select **Properties**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Right-click your project solution in the **Solution Explorer**.
* Select **Properties**.
```

    ![Solution Explorer](images/Solution-Explorer.png)

> * In the **General** section of the **Application** tab, select **.Net 6.0** from the **Target Framework** drop-down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select **.Net 6.0** from the **Target Framework** drop-down in the **General** section of the **Application** tab.
```

    ![Target Framework](images/Target-Framework.png)

* Go to **Tools** > **NuGet Package Manager** > **Manage NuGet Packages for Solution...**.

> * In the **NuGet Package manager Solution**, go to the **Installed** tab and choose **Umbraco.Cms**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Go to the **Installed** tab In the **NuGet Package manager Solution**.
* Choose **Umbraco.Cms**
```

> * Select your project, choose **10.0.0** from the **Version** drop-down and click **Install** to upgrade your project to version 10.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select your project.
* Choose **10.0.0** from the **Version** drop-down.
Click **Install** to upgrade your project to version 10.
```

    ![Nuget Version Install](images/Nuget-Version-Install.png)

> * Similarly, update the below packages referenced in your project to the latest versions available on NuGet either through the **NuGet Package Manager** or **Package Manager Console (PowerShell)**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Update the below packages referenced in your project to the latest versions available on NuGet either through the **NuGet Package Manager** or **Package Manager Console (PowerShell)**:
```

  * <https://www.nuget.org/packages/Umbraco.Forms/10.0.0>
  * <https://www.nuget.org/packages/Umbraco.Cloud.StorageProviders.AzureBlob/5.0.0>
  * <https://www.nuget.org/packages/Umbraco.Cloud.Identity.Cms/10.0.0>
  * <https://www.nuget.org/packages/Umbraco.Deploy.Forms/10.0.0/>

* Install the [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.Abstractions](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.Abstractions/6.0.0) package.

* Update the `Program.cs` to the following:

    ```CSharp
    using Umbraco.Cms.Web.Common.Hosting;
    public class Program
        {
            public static void Main(string[] args)
                => CreateHostBuilder(args)
                    .Build()
                    .Run();

            public static IHostBuilder CreateHostBuilder(string[] args) =>
                Host.CreateDefaultBuilder(args)
                    .ConfigureUmbracoDefaults()
                    .ConfigureWebHostDefaults(webBuilder =>
                    {
                        webBuilder.UseStaticWebAssets();
                        webBuilder.UseStartup<Startup>();
                    });
        }
    ```

> * To re-enable the appsettings IntelliSense, update your schema reference in the **appsettings.json**, **appsettings.Development.json**, **appsettings.Production.json**, and **appsettings.Staging.json** files from:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Re-enable the appsettings IntelliSense by updating your schema reference in the **appsettings.json**, **appsettings.Development.json**, **appsettings.Production.json**, and **appsettings.Staging.json** files from:
```

    ```json
    "$schema": "./umbraco/config/appsettings-schema.json",
    ```

    To:

    ```json
    "$schema": "./appsettings-schema.json",
    ```

> * Remove the following files and folders *manually* from your local project and on the cloud **Development** environment through [KUDU](../../Set-Up/Power-Tools/index.md) both from the `repository` and `wwwroot` folders:

Reviewer: This is a long item.
Would it make sense to split it in two?
One for local, and one for KUDU?
